{% raw %}[ZhenZhen](/ZhenZhen): Recap of last time: we went back and tried some
solutions. It worked for pronouns but not for proper nouns.

\[...scribe setup time...\]

Emily: The rules that do something special are Head-Modifier.. If you
look at non-zero-arg, that's the one that says 'my slash is empty'. But
basic-one-arg; I take my slash req que from the sole argument.

Francis: zero-arg-non-slash does not inherit from basic-zero-arg... In
fact nothing inherits from basic-zero-arg. Looks like a bug.

Emily: Laurie, could you please enter a ticket

Emily: \[examining various 'basic-\*-phrase' types.\]

Francis: we found a further problem in optional subject. It wasn't
closing them off in the subject.

[ZhenZhen](/ZhenZhen): we have a rule for optional subject. \[shows
'opt-subj-declarative-phrase'\]

Emily: this rule is referring to ARG-ST, which it shouldn't. Any such
solution won't generalize, it shouldn't have worked except by accident
if the ARG-ST was not yet not-propagated. They have a 'main-verb-lex'...
looks like you've lost the link between valence features and ARG-ST
somewhere. Needs re-debugging.

[ZhenZhen](/ZhenZhen): Moving on to 4.5 Q5. EmphaticSHI...DE

Emily: In example 88 it seems hard to analyze as shi being a normal
copula. So there must be something special going on here and you
probably need an analysis for this one where shi is a marker.

[ZhenZhen](/ZhenZhen): Like a 'cleft shi' like in English. 88 We can
handle with a special 'shi' and even get the semantics we want. 89 is a
bigger problem. Ignoring this difficult one for now. 92 is a variation
of transitive verb, similar to 89.

\[discussion of 91,92\]

Emily: I'm starting to get a feeling for this shi-de construction..

[ZhenZhen](/ZhenZhen): \[reviews proposed solutions from handout,
especially \#2\]

Emily: So then when you have an example that DE is not at the end,...
\#89... make sure to retain the gap. \[Draws tree with ternery branching
VP: V XP deP/NP de wants something that is gappy and comps not empty.

Francis: we built something similar but we found that RELS list was
coming in but we didn't want a predicate. Question about how we're using
XARG in cop-shi-pp-de-lex.

Emily: Ann might have an opinion, but seems legit. Because shi is taking
two complements and has to act as a surrogate at the same time.. yeah,
weird. The other possibility I can see is, have shi attached low to the
thing it's emphasizing. Instead of the three branching thing, you have a
non-branching that takes a de/P and makes something that can be picked
up.

Francis: That sounds like the adverb analysis of shi that's been
explored in literature. We disprefer it for certain reasons.

Francis: teaser for next week, there are many things in Chinese where it
looks like we want to combine two things together as a lexical rule.
Current machinery doesn't allow this. Generally, a lexical rule can only
have one daughter. Chart mapping?
<update date omitted for speed>{% endraw %}