{% raw %}# Overview

The MRS formalism is a description language we use in composition and
meaning representation. The actual content of *useful* MRSs, however, is
largely governed by specific analyses and general MRS best practice. In
building the LOGON MT prototype, it is vital to establish agreement on
the basic building blocks of wellformed *and* useful MRSs. In many
respects, LOGON has followed earlier work, as is embodied in the
semantics produced by the ERG.

However, as we increase coverage and, in parallel, harmonize more both
within each grammar involved and across grammars, we end up making
refinements, additions, and revisions to ERG best practice. At the same
find, we find phenomena that require distinct analyses across the
languages involved (primarily Norwegian and English, but to a much
lesser degree also Japanese and German). The following pages aim to
*collectively* document LOGON MRS best practice, i.e. codify both the
specific analyses adopted in LOGON as well as, ideally, some of the
thought process that lead to these analyses. Using a wiki for
collaborative documentation, we hope that (a) we will end up with a
jointly authored collection of text, more (in volume and content) than
one individual could produce by themselves and (b) the emerging
collection of pages will eventually find a wider use, i.e. as part of
the LOGON documentation upon project completion.

# High-Level Considerations

# Some Specific Phenomena

- /MessageRelations
- /InformationStructure

# Computational Support

- RmrsVpm --- Variable Property Mapping: this is used to
convert the language internal mapping of properties to the SEM-I and
back again.
<update date omitted for speed>{% endraw %}