{% raw %}# Background

Some PhD and post-doctoral fellowships at LTG include a certain
proportion of 'obligatory work duties', i.e. the expectation for the
fellow to contribute to tasks at the group or department that transcend
the individual research project. The most common such tasks are related
to teaching, but in principle any academic work that benefits the
research group or department at large can be considered work duties.

The standard duration for a PhD in Norway (at present) is considered
three years. Many PhD fellows have an employment contract for four
years, however, which means that their engagement includes 25 percent
obligatory work duties. Seeing that a full working year is considered
the equivalent of around 1700 hours, the department recommends that
fellows with 25 percent work duties contibute, on average, around 410
hours per year. Where possible, it may be desirable to plan on a
slightly higher obligatory work load in earlier years, so as to keep
non-PhD work to a minimum towards the end of the fellowship.

The assignment of work duties, ideally, should be by mutual agreement,
i.e. the research group and fellows should seek to align requirements,
interests, and capabilities, in order to make the best possible use of
resources. Unless otherwise agreed at the time of appointment, fellows
have a 'right' to use a large part of their work duties on teaching,
i.e. gaining experience in the design and implementation of university
coursework is considered a valuable qualification. Each fellow is
responsible for their own bookkeeping and reporting of hours (e.g.
annually to the Faculty).

# Guidelines for Hourly Accounting

Taking as our point of departure (a) a set of recommendations by the
department (apparently dating back to around 1999) and (b) the terms of
payment for student laboratory assistants, LTG permanent staff in early
2012 landed on the following guidelines for hourly accounting of work
duties. These guidelines are intended to both avoid under-reporting and
over-engagement, but may of course be subject to review and invididual
adjustments (in a dialogue with group management).

Teaching a course is assumed to take up to *six* hours per lecture hour,
e.g. up to 192 hours for a class that has two lecture hours per week
over 16 weeks (which would be the default in the spring term). While
there is no principle against it, for a PhD fellow to teach a full class
by themselves is not the most common case; when co-teaching with others,
the above numbers would be pro-rated proportionally to the actual number
of lectures taught.

It should ordinarily not be the case that a fellows needs to design a
class from scratch, including preparation of wholly new teaching
materials. Where this might be required, nevertheless, teaching credit
can be increased by up to 25 per cent. For example, should a fellow
teach half of a completely new class (i.e. eight weeks with two lecture
hours each, say), they could be credited for an additional 24 hours.

Taking the responsibility for laboratories (*gruppe*) is another common
form of involving fellows in teaching. Here, the accounting of hours
should by and large follow the standards set by the department when
hiring students as laboratory assistants. It can be helpful to
distinguish two types of laboratory-related activities: (a) preparing
and running the actucal (face-to-face) laboratory sessions and (b)
assessing and grading submissions by students (i.e. obligatory
assignments or homework projects).

For laboratory hours, we propose a multiplication factor of *three*. For
example, teaching 15 laboratories of two hours each (where, as in
teaching, a block of fourty-five minutes qualifies as one hour) would be
credited as 90 hours. However, a fellow might have the responsibility
for multiple laboratory groups of the same course in the same term, say
in one of the larger LTG courses like INF1820 or INF2810. Seeing that
running through the same material (typically in the same week) multiple
times does not call for much additional preparatory work, the proposed
multiplication factor for secondary laboratory hours is 1.5. Thus,
leading two two-hour laboratories over 15 weeks would result in a total
credit of 135 hours.

The second element of laboratory assistance, assessment of student
submissions, is a little harder to capture quantitatively. Again, the
general principle should be parallelism to what student laboratory
assistants would be paid for their service (in proportion to the hourly
rates offered to students for core laboratory hours). Traditionally,
obligatory assignments are broken down into three categories, *small*,
*medium*, and *large*, where the expectation is that evaluating a
*small* submission can be done in about half an hour, whereas a *large*
submission may take around one hour.

In INF2820, for example, we have had six submissions throughout the
semester in recent years, where technically each pair of submissions
(i.e. (1a) and (1b), (2a) and (2b), and (3a) and (3b)) constitutes one
of three obligatory assignments that students need to pass to qualify
for the exam. For this example, all six submissions are estimated to be
in the *small* category. Thus, if a total of 162, say, INF2820
submissions were evaluated in the course of a semester, the credit for
assessing these and providing feedback to students could be around 81
hours.

The classification of assignments (and thus student submissions) into
the above categories, ultimately, should be performed by the LTG staff
teaching the course (in consultation with laboratory assistants, of
course). Furthermore, the specific system used for one course should
stabilize throughout the years, unless of course there are (non-trivial)
revisions in the assignments (or unexpected discoveries).

Finally, fellows can assist in the grading of student exams, where they
should keep track of the actual hours used.

# Candidate Non-Teaching Work Duties

- web page maintenance
<update date omitted for speed>{% endraw %}