{% raw %}## Download

1\. Download the latest version of ACE
\[<http://sweaglesw.org/linguistics/ace/download>\]. (As of today
(2014-09-01), if you are using Mac, you want to download
\[ace-0.9.18-osx.tar.gz\]. If you are using a lunux machine, you want to
download \[ace-0.9.19-x86-64.tar.gz\].) Note that ACE does not work on
Windows. Plus, you want to use a 64 bit machine for the running the
precompiled ACE binary.

2\. Download the lasted ERG data file from the above ACE repository.
Note that you have to take notice of version. For example, if your ACE
version is 0.9.19, you want to download
\[erg-1212-x86-64-0.9.19.dat.bz2\]. Extract the data file of ERG into
the same directory as the ACE binary.

3\. Add your the ACE directory on the regular PATH variable (\~/.bashrc)

## Compilation

1\. Compile the data file of Jacy. For example,

    $ cd $LOGONROOT/dfki/jacy
    $ ace -g ace/config.tdl -G jacy.dat

Or get the latest [Jacy](https://blog.inductorsoftware.com/docsproto/grammars/JacyTop) which has fewer errors but is subtly
incompatible with the transfer grammar, ...

2\. Compile the data file of Jaen. For instance,

    $ cd $LOGONROOT/uio/tm/jaen
    $ ace -g ace/config.tdl -G jaen.dat

Note that you have to compile one of these or both, when you make some
changes.

## jaen+ace

1\. In your \~/.bashrc (or whatever), you can add the following lines.
(The suffix \[+m\] means "with messages".)

    alias jaen+ace="ace -g $LOGONROOT/dfki/jacy/jacy.dat 2>/dev/null | ace -g $LOGONROOT/uio/tm/jaen/jaen.dat 2>/dev/null | ace -g YOUR_ACE_FOLDER/erg-1212-x86-64-0.9.19.dat -e 2>/dev/null"
    alias jaen+ace+m="ace -g $LOGONROOT/dfki/jacy/jacy.dat | ace -g $LOGONROOT/uio/tm/jaen/jaen.dat | ace -g YOUR_ACE_FOLDER/erg-1212-x86-64-0.9.19.dat -e"

2\. After logout and login again, now you run jaen+ace.

    $ echo " 犬 が 猫 を 食べる " | jaen+ace
    The dog eats the cat.
    The dog eats the cats.
    The dog eats a cat.
    A dog eats the cat.
    A dog eats the cats.
    A dog eats a cat.
    The dogs eat the cat.
    The dogs eat the cats.
    The dogs eat a cat.
    Dogs eat the cat.
    The dog eats cats.
    Dogs eat the cats.
    Dogs eat a cat.
    A dog eats cats.
    The dogs eat cats.
    Dogs eat cats.

#### Complete Transfer Dictionaries

If you are having trouble loading all the lexicons (some are commented
out by default), increase the value of freezer-megabytes in
jaen/ace/config.tdl and recompile the transfer grammar.

    freezer-megabytes := 1024.

## underspecified generation

The subsumption check of ACE has two different version: grammar-internal
type hierarchy or using the SEMI hierarchy. Between them, the latter one
is not used for one reason or another. If a variable has an
underspecified value in the input MRS for generation, the default mode
of ACE does not generate it. If you want to invoke the underspecified
generation, you can use an option --disable-subsumption-test on the
generation side.

For example, the following MRS may not be generated by ACE because of
the underspecified value \[PERS: person\].

    #test.mrs
    
    [ LTOP: h7
    INDEX: e8 [ e TENSE: past MOOD: indicative PERF: - PROG: - SF: prop ]
    RELS: < [ "_bark_v_1_rel"<-1:-1> LBL: h0 ARG0: e8 ARG1: x5 [ x PERS: person NUM: sg ] ]
     [ proper_q_rel<-1:-1> LBL: h1 ARG0: x5 RSTR: h2 BODY: h3 ]
     [ named_rel<-1:-1> LBL: h4 ARG0: x5 CARG: "Taro" ] >
    HCONS: < h2 qeq h4 > ] 
    
    $ cat test.mrs | ace -g erg.dat -e
    NOTE: 63 passive, 151 active edges in final generation chart; built 63 passives total. [0 results]
    NOTE: generated 0 / 1 sentences, avg 548k, time 0.00493s
    NOTE: transfer did 98 successful unifies and 133 failed ones

Using the --disable-subsumption-test option solves this.

    $ cat test.mrs | ace -g erg.dat -e --disable-subsumption-test
    Taro barked.
    NOTE: 63 passive, 151 active edges in final generation chart; built 63 passives total. [1 results]
    NOTE: generated 1 / 1 sentences, avg 548k, time 0.00510s
    NOTE: transfer did 98 successful unifies and 133 failed ones

Last update: 2017-01-27 by FrancisBond [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/MtJaenAce/_edit)]{% endraw %}